# taxonomyclassifierCNN

I designed a toy model pipeline for classifying the taxonomic data based on convolutional neural networks and it used the taxonomic data which was generated by Sequence Evolution with the help of a phylogenetic algorithm.


Taxonomic assignment plays a key role in classifying the species in Biodiversity and evolution studies. Most of the Taxonomic assignment method was developed by the Advantage algorithm method, however, it would take a lot of computational time and data, and therefore I was designing a pipeline based on the convolutional neural networks for classifying the taxonomic data. for the testing purpose, I generate the 1000 taxonomic sequences with each have 50 sequence lengths, afterward, I labeled each taxonomic data using principal component analysis, for simplicity I labeled each taxonomic data from 0 to 3. this model was trained by taxonomic data and their label and predict on given taxonomic data.

## Dependencies
  Keras 2.2.4 under Python 3.7<br/>
  scikit-learn<br/>
  
  Keras 2.2.4 and numpy and  scikit-learn
  
##  Setup and Run the taxtonaic classifier pipeline on your machine

1. Install [Miniconda for Python 3.7](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) in your OS.
2. Create a `conda` environment needed for your project, using `conda create -n <my_env>`.
3. Activate the environment with `conda activate <my_env>`.
4. Install  Keras 2.2.4 and numpy and  scikit-learn using `conda install <package name>`. You will be able to install more when needed, but this is the basic one to start working.
5. generate the taxonomic data, using `python datagenerator_SequenceEvolution.py` command on the command line.
7. train the model using taxonomic data and their label, using `python training_model.py` command on the command line.
8. Edith the filepath_test by adding your own taxonomic file on predition_on_data.py
9. predict your taxonomic data class by run predition_on_data.py the using `python predition_on_data.py` command on the command line.


## References

1. Advancements in Image Classification using Convolutional Neural Network (https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.03288)
2. taxonomic data generated by sequence evolution(Special aspects of Advanced Algorithms exercise 4, "Phylogeny Inference and Application" (2
SWS), Winter 2020/21, Prabhav Kalaghatgi freie universität berlin)
